Welcome back to the
computer forensics path,
Course 5, The
Investigative Process.
Throughout this
course, we're going to
cover the investigative process.
We're going to talk about
Locard's principle of exchange,
we're going to discuss
the scientific method,
and we're going to talk
about big data and some of
the concerns and issues
we face with that.
Course 5, module 1,
we're going to talk
about Locard's principle
in the scientific method.
Locard's principle
of exchange deals
with the cross-transference
of evidence.
What they're talking about
is when one object comes
in contact with a second object,
traces of both objects
are left on each other.
Picture a car accident,
where one car bumps into
another car and
scrapes of paint are
left on the other car
from the first car.
So they both had an exchange
of paint as they collide.
Locard's principle
says that every object
that connects with
another object,
makes contact with another
object, leaves a trace.
As digital forensic
investigators,
we're talking about computers.
Whenever you do something
with a computer,
it does leave a trace behind.
These traces will help us
link suspects to a
particular crime,
victims to a place,
person, or evidence.
The scientific method
consists of stages.
The first stage in the scientific
method is observation.
We want to look and see what type
of evidence we can obtain
from the crime scene.
From there we're going to develop
a hypothesis based on
what we've observed.
After we have our hypothesis,
we're going to test it
and see if it works,
like a proof of concept.
Once we've done that,
we're going to verify
if it is true,
and once we verify
our hypothesis,
we're going to make a conclusion.
If our conclusions
don't call true,
then we have to form
a new hypothesis.
This is cyclical in nature.
Usually once we make
some observations,
we develop a hypothesis,
we test it, we come
to a conclusion.
From there, we're going to
find more evidence and we're
going to start over and
make another observation,
develop a new hypothesis,
and continue to test that one.
This is a visual representation
of the scientific process.
You can see over here on
the far left-hand
side of the screen,
we will start with
our observation.
Once we make our observation,
we'll think of a question.
Once we have that, we will
formulate a hypothesis,
and then we will test it.
Once we test it,
we'll make a theory,
come up with some type of
theory from our tests,
and from there we'll
go ahead and make
some more observations and
continue to go round and round.
The forensic cycle, it
includes the creation of
policy and procedures.
You should all have
written policy and
procedures regarding
digital evidence,
how it's collected, how
you do your intake,
how it is handled, stored.
You also want to obtain
initial information.
So once we've done this,
we're going to find out what type
of case are we looking at?
What type of evidence
would we expect to find,
and where would we expect to find
that evidence within
the file system?
Then we're going to
provide an investigation.
We're going to document,
you're going to
document the site,
the conditions,
and your observations,
you have examination
and reporting,
and you'll have quality
control and peer review,
where your findings
are reviewed by
another examiner to
see if they hold true,
and then the last step we'll have
testimony and final disposition.
This is where we would bring
our evidence into court,
or into a hearing,
or some type of
formal procedure and testify
regarding our findings.
You should have procedures
for digital evidence examination.
You should maintain,
keep these procedures
up-to-date with current
standards in the field,
and you should follow
these written procedures.
You should have work practices to
prevent your contamination
of evidence.
You need to monitor
your procedures
using controls and standards,
and you need to test and
validate these procedures.
We'll talk more about
this throughout the path.
We're going to validate
our tools and software.
We're going to do this before
we use them on evidence.
We want to make sure all our
tools are working properly.
We want to preserve the evidence.
We want to make no
changes to the evidence.
We want to document
every access to the
original evidence.
This is called the
chain of custody,
and we'll talk more about that
as we go through this path.
But every time somebody
touches the original evidence,
you need to document that.
You want to work from a
copy of the evidence.
You never work on the original,
you always work from a copy.
You do want to document
the chain of custody.
Then you want to have
your reporting and
documentation process.
Witnesses. There are
different types of witnesses.
But basically, a witness
is defined as a person who
provides testimony under oath
and is subject to perjury.
A witness is going to have
a connection with the incident.
He's going to have information
about the incident.
Either he was there,
he has some first-hand
information,
he knows somebody who was there,
so a witness who has some
connection to the crime.
An expert witness,
on the other hand,
probably doesn't not have
direct connection to
the crime or the incident
we are investigating.
He or she is an expert
in their field,
and they are usually
paid to testify.
In our next module,
we're going to
discuss big data and
the challenges that we have
when examining big data.